# KB-0001: `stor01` RAM issues

When resetting the operating systems for each of the nodes, we moved some RAM
out of the management nodes and into the storage nodes. This was because the
Ceph OSDs could always use a bit more RAM to help with performance. However,
after adding the extra RAM into `stor01`, it would refuse to boot. After
messing around with the sticks for long enough, we were able to get it to boot
again.

## Problem

The problem was definitely a RAM issue - even though the boot codes that the
node was displaying indicated other problems, searching the internet showed
that the real culprit was something with the RAM. However, it wasn't a seating
problem - we tried that several times. Additionally, none of the DIMMs ended up
being faulty. We even tried turning off one of the other storage nodes and
booting with some of those RAM sticks. Still no dice. It had to be the
motherboard.

The issue turned out to be that one of the RAM slots on the motherboard had
died somehow, probably when we added the extra memory. This slot was P1-DIMMB1.
What's important to note about this slot is that it's one of the **blue** slots
for its channel. The blue slots are the first/primary slot of a channel - in
this case, channel B.

**If a channel's blue slot dies, the entire channel is unsuable.**

## Solution

The hardware manual for this motherboard, the **SuperMicro X9DRi-LN4F+**, lists
the allowed RAM configurations, all of which use channel B. We currently use an
unsupported configuration that allows us to use the additional RAM and still
boot. This configuration is:

- 4GB DIMMs in slots:
  - P1-DIMMA1
  - P1-DIMMC1
- 8GB DIMMs in slots:
  - P1-DIMME1
  - P1-DIMME2
  - P1-DIMMF1
  - P1-DIMMF2
  - P1-DIMMG1
  - P1-DIMMG2

This configuration is bootable and stable.