# KB-0002: C6100 BMC Firmware

The BMC firmware seemed to be faulty on some of the C6100 nodes. It was fixed
by flashing the firmware with a new, updated image.

## Problem

When we were trying to configure IPMI on each of the C6100 nodes, there were a
lot of issues interacting with the BIOS menus and the nodes in general.
Sometimes the menus would time out, the IPMI interface was not always working,
and on occasion, the node would simply reboot without warning. The last symptom
can be caused by poor cooling, but the nodes were removed from the chassis to
make sure there were no airflow blockages.

Something was seriously wrong with the firmware image on each of the nodes, but
we're not really sure what. It's possible that it got corrupted somehow when we
opened up the nodes to move around RAM, or maybe the images were slowly
corrupted over time and we're just now interacting with the BIOS. Whatever the
issue, it needed to be re-flashed.

## Solution

Using a [guide on the dell forums](https://www.dell.com/community/PowerEdge-Hardware-General/PE-C6100-XS23-TY-BMC-Not-Alive-Not-Present-Recovery-Procedure/td-p/4740214),
the firmware image was flashed on all four of the nodes.

Here's the meat and potatoes of the forum post in case it gets edited/removed:

1. Download the firmware image from the [dell support page](https://www.dell.com/support/home/us/en/04/Drivers/DriversDetails?driverId=9VJW6)
2. Run the executable file to extract two directories - `KCSFlash` and
   `SOCFlash`.
3. Create a bootable DOS flash drive, and copy the two directories onto it.
4. Boot into the DOS environment on the drive and run the following commands:

```shell
cd socflash
cd dos
flash8.bat
```
5. Reboot the node (not sure if this is necessary) back into the DOS
   environment and run the following commands:
```shell
cd kcsflash
cd dos
KCSFLASH -c 0 -t 0 -i 5442H133.ROM –r
```
   Note that the ROM file might be in a different location, like one directory
   above or below `kcsflash/dos`. If this is the case, just make sure to pass
   the proper path to the ROM file in the last command.

Then, reboot the node and you're good to go!
